README.md, before:

# Spectra

**Spectra** is a synthetic filesystem simulator designed for testing traversal, migration, and data-mirroring pipelines. It generates and serves an artificial directory tree through a clean API interface, allowing deterministic or randomized environments for benchmarking and validation.

---

## Overview

Spectra behaves like a mock filesystem. Instead of relying on actual disk I/O, it **procedurally generates** folders and files based on configuration parameters (min/max depth, file counts, folder counts, etc.). Each generated node is **persisted to a DuckDB database** with multi-table support, enabling reproducible state across test runs.

This design allows engineers to stress-test migration engines (such as Sylos) without interacting with real file systems or cloud APIs.

---

## Key Features

* **Procedural Generation:** Randomly creates folder and file hierarchies using a seeded RNG for reproducibility.
* **Deterministic Mode:** When given a seed, the same folder structure is regenerated identically across runs.
* **Unified Single-Table Architecture:** One table with world-based existence tracking for optimal performance.
* **RESTful API Interface:** Exposes a comprehensive HTTP API with folder/file CRUD operations.
* **Go fs.FS Interface:** Implements Go's standard library `fs.FS` interface for compatibility with tools like Rclone.
* **DuckDB Persistence:** Each node is stored in a local DuckDB database with metadata for path, type, size, timestamps, etc.
* **Configurable Complexity:** Control depth, fan-out, file size ranges, and naming schemes through the config file or API.
* **Instant Cleanup:** Simple teardown between tests — delete the DuckDB file and regenerate.
* **Plain UUID IDs:** Simple unique identifiers without prefixes.
* **Optimized Queries:** Vectorized queries reduce database round trips by 3-4x.

---

## Architecture

### Single-Table Design

Spectra uses an optimized single-table architecture for maximum performance:

- **Unified `nodes` Table**: All nodes stored in one table with plain UUID IDs
- **Existence Map**: JSON column tracking which "worlds" (primary, s1, s2, etc.) each node exists in
- **Dynamic Traversal Columns**: Per-world traversal status columns (`traversal_primary`, `traversal_s1`, etc.)
- **World-Based Filtering**: Queries filter nodes by world using JSON operations on `existence_map`

### Probability-Based Generation

When generating children:
1. Generate nodes based on configuration rules
2. For each node, roll dice against world probabilities
3. Populate `existence_map` with results: `{"primary": true, "s1": true, "s2": false}`
4. Insert all nodes in a single bulk operation

### World-Aware Operations

The system filters nodes by "world" context:
- Default world is "primary"
- Operations can specify target world (s1, s2, etc.)
- Nodes can exist in multiple worlds simultaneously
- Traversal status tracked independently per world

---

## Tech Stack

| Component                                               | Purpose                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Go (Golang)**                                         | Core implementation language                           |
| **DuckDB**                                              | Lightweight embedded SQL database for node persistence |
| **Chi Router**                                          | HTTP router for RESTful API endpoints                 |
| **Google UUID**                                         | UUID generation for consistent node identification     |
| **Go's `math/rand`**                                    | Deterministic random generation with seeding           |
| **Go standard library (`os`, `path/filepath`, `time`, `io/fs`)** | Utility functions, path normalization, and filesystem interface |

---

## Project Structure

```
Spectra/
├── cmd/                       # Command-line applications
│   └── api/                   # API server application
│       └── main.go           # HTTP API server entry point
├── configs/                   # Configuration files
│   └── default.json          # Default configuration
├── internal/                  # Internal implementation
│   ├── api/                  # HTTP API layer
│   │   ├── handlers/         # Endpoint handlers
│   │   ├── middleware/       # HTTP middleware
│   │   ├── models/           # Request/response models
│   │   ├── router.go         # Route configuration
│   │   └── server.go         # HTTP server
│   ├── config/               # Configuration management
│   ├── db/                   # Database layer
│   ├── generator/            # Procedural generation
│   ├── spectrafs/            # Core filesystem logic
│   └── types/                # Type definitions
├── sdk/                      # Public SDK interface
├── dev_setup_scripts/        # Development setup scripts
├── main.go                   # SDK demo application
└── go.mod                    # Go module definition
```

---

## Core Concepts

### Node Generation

Spectra represents all nodes as entries in a unified DuckDB table:

| Column               | Type      | Description                                                |
| -------------------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------   |
| `id`                 | string    | Plain UUID identifier                                      |
| `parent_id`          | string    | UUID of parent folder                                      |
| `name`               | string    | Display name                                               |
| `path`               | string    | Relative path (root-relative, not absolute)                |
| `type`               | string    | `"folder"` or `"file"`                                     |
| `depth_level`        | int       | BFS-style depth index                                      |
| `size`               | int64     | File size (0 for folders)                                  |
| `last_updated`       | timestamp | Synthetic timestamp                                        |
| `checksum`           | string    | SHA256 checksum (for files only)                           |
| `existence_map`      | JSON      | Map tracking world existence: `{"primary":true,"s1":true}` |

### Example Behavior

Given a config:

```json
{
  "seed": {
    "max_depth": 4,
    "min_folders": 1,
    "max_folders": 3,
    "min_files": 2,
    "max_files": 5,
    "seed": 42,
    "db_path": "./spectra.db"
  },
  "api": {
    "host": "localhost",
    "port": 8086
  },
  "secondary_tables": {
    "s1": 0.7,
    "s2": 0.3
  }
}
```

Spectra will generate a reproducible tree up to 4 levels deep, where each folder contains between 1–3 subfolders and 2–5 files. Each node will have a 70% chance of existing in the s1 world and a 30% chance of existing in the s2 world, tracked in its `existence_map`.

---

## API Interface

### RESTful Endpoints

#### Folder Operations
- `POST /api/v1/folder/list` - List children with table detection
- `POST /api/v1/folder/create` - Create new folder
- `GET /api/v1/folder/{id}` - Get folder metadata

#### File Operations
- `POST /api/v1/file/upload` - Upload file with data processing
- `GET /api/v1/file/{id}` - Get file metadata
- `GET /api/v1/file/{id}/data` - Get file data + checksum

#### Node Operations
- `GET /api/v1/node/{id}` - Get any node metadata
- `DELETE /api/v1/node/{id}` - Delete node

#### System Operations
- `POST /api/v1/reset` - Reset all tables
- `GET /api/v1/config` - Get current configuration
- `GET /api/v1/tables` - Get table information
- `GET /api/v1/tables/{tableName}/count` - Get table row count

### SDK Interface

```go
type SpectraFS struct {
    // Core operations
    ListChildren(req *ListChildrenRequest) (*ListResult, error)
    GetNode(req *GetNodeRequest) (*Node, error)
    CreateFolder(req *CreateFolderRequest) (*Node, error)
    UploadFile(req *UploadFileRequest) (*Node, error)
    DeleteNode(req *DeleteNodeRequest) error
    
    // System operations
    Reset() error
    GetConfig() *Config
    GetTableInfo() ([]TableInfo, error)
    GetNodeCount(tableName string) (int, error)
}
```

#### Request Types

All CRUD operations use simple request structs that support flexible lookup methods through a clean interface-based design:

**GetNodeRequest** - Retrieve a node by ID or Path+World
```go
// By ID (plain UUID)
req := &sdk.GetNodeRequest{
    ID: "root",
}
// OR by Path in specific world
req := &sdk.GetNodeRequest{
    Path:      "/",
    TableName: "s1",  // TableName specifies the world
}
node, err := fs.GetNode(req)
```

**ListChildrenRequest** - List children of a parent node
```go
// By ParentID (plain UUID)
req := &sdk.ListChildrenRequest{
    ParentID: "root",
}
// OR by ParentPath in specific world
req := &sdk.ListChildrenRequest{
    ParentPath: "/",
    TableName:  "s1",  // Defaults to "primary" if not specified
}
result, err := fs.ListChildren(req)
```

**CreateFolderRequest** - Create a new folder
```go
req := &sdk.CreateFolderRequest{
    ParentID: "root",  // OR ParentPath + TableName
    Name:     "new-folder",
}
folder, err := fs.CreateFolder(req)
// folder.ExistenceMap will contain world existence based on probabilities
```

**UploadFileRequest** - Upload a file
```go
req := &sdk.UploadFileRequest{
    ParentID: "root",  // OR ParentPath + TableName
    Name:     "test.txt",
    Data:     []byte("file content"),
}
file, err := fs.UploadFile(req)
```

**DeleteNodeRequest** - Delete a node
```go
req := &sdk.DeleteNodeRequest{
    ID: "abc123-...",  // Plain UUID
}
err := fs.DeleteNode(req)
```

**Design Note:** Each request struct implements the appropriate interfaces (`NodeIdentifier`, `ParentIdentifier`, etc.) for compile-time type safety and runtime validation. Users can pass any struct that implements these interfaces.

### fs.FS Interface

SpectraFS implements Go's standard library `fs.FS` interface, enabling compatibility with tools like Rclone and standard library functions:

```go
// Create SpectraFS instance
fs, _ := sdk.New("configs/default.json")

// Get fs.FS for a specific world
primaryFS := fs.AsFS("primary")
s1FS := fs.AsFS("s1")

// Use with standard library
import "io/fs"

data, _ := fs.ReadFile(primaryFS, "folder/file.txt")
entries, _ := fs.ReadDir(primaryFS, "folder")
```

**World Projection:** Each world is projected as a separate filesystem, allowing tools like Rclone to treat each world as an independent remote. This enables comparison and synchronization between different world projections.

---

## Usage

### Running the Applications

#### SDK Demo Application
```bash
# Run the SDK demonstration
go run main.go

# Use custom configuration
go run main.go -config configs/custom.json
```

#### API Server
```bash
# Start the HTTP API server with default configuration
go run cmd/api/main.go

# Start with custom configuration
go run cmd/api/main.go configs/custom.json
```

### Example API Calls

#### List Children
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8086/api/v1/folder/list \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"parent_id": "root"}'
```

#### Create Folder
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8086/api/v1/folder/create \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"parent_id": "root", "name": "new-folder"}'
```

#### Upload File
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8086/api/v1/file/upload \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"parent_id": "root", "name": "test.txt", "data": "SGVsbG8gV29ybGQ="}'
```

---

## Development Setup

### Windows Setup
Run the provided PowerShell script to set up the development environment:

```powershell
.\dev_setup_scripts\windows.ps1
```

This script will:
- Install MSYS2 and GCC for CGO support
- Set up DuckDB binaries
- Configure environment variables
- Install Go dependencies

**Note**: Spectra uses `go-duckdb v1.7.0` and `apache/arrow/go/v14 v14.0.2` for Windows compatibility. These versions are known to work well with the Windows CGO setup.

### Manual Setup
1. Install Go 1.24.2 or later
2. Install DuckDB with CGO support
3. Run `go mod tidy` to install dependencies
4. Build applications:
   ```bash
   # Build SDK demo
   go build -o bin/spectra-demo main.go
   
   # Build API server
   go build -o bin/spectra-api cmd/api/main.go
   ```

---

## Command-Line Applications

Spectra provides two main command-line applications:

### SDK Demo (`main.go`)
A demonstration application that showcases the Spectra SDK functionality:
- Loads configuration and initializes SpectraFS
- Demonstrates table information and node generation
- Shows multi-table operations and secondary table counts
- Performs a complete reset operation
- Perfect for testing and understanding the SDK

### API Server (`cmd/api/main.go`)
A production-ready HTTP server that exposes the Spectra filesystem via RESTful API:
- Starts HTTP server on configurable host and port
- Provides all CRUD operations via REST endpoints
- Includes graceful shutdown and timeout handling
- Supports CORS and proper error responses
- Ideal for integration testing and production use

---

## Use Cases

* **Migration Engine Testing:** Validate traversal and BFS logic with reproducible data.
* **Performance Benchmarks:** Measure traversal throughput without real I/O.
* **Integration Testing:** Simulate different storage backends through the same API shape.
* **Rclone Integration:** Use SpectraFS as a backend for Rclone, enabling comparison and synchronization between different world projections.
* **Chaos Simulation:** Test rate limiting, throttling, or transient "missing node" scenarios.
* **Multi-Source Testing:** Test migration scenarios with multiple data sources and probability-based data distribution.
* **Standard Library Compatibility:** Use with any tool or library that works with Go's `fs.FS` interface.

---

## Configuration

The configuration file supports three main sections:

- **`seed`**: Controls procedural generation parameters
- **`api`**: Configures HTTP server settings
- **`secondary_tables`**: Defines secondary table probabilities

See `configs/default.json` for a complete example.

---

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

---

## License

This project is part of the Sylos ecosystem and follows the same licensing terms.

Commit message:

Updating readme to update the license wording

README.md, after:

# Spectra

**Spectra** is a synthetic filesystem simulator designed for testing traversal, migration, and data-mirroring pipelines. It generates and serves an artificial directory tree through a clean API interface, allowing deterministic or randomized environments for benchmarking and validation.

---

## Overview

Spectra behaves like a mock filesystem. Instead of relying on actual disk I/O, it **procedurally generates** folders and files based on configuration parameters (min/max depth, file counts, folder counts, etc.). Each generated node is **persisted to a DuckDB database** with multi-table support, enabling reproducible state across test runs.

This design allows engineers to stress-test migration engines (such as Sylos) without interacting with real file systems or cloud APIs.

---

## Key Features

* **Procedural Generation:** Randomly creates folder and file hierarchies using a seeded RNG for reproducibility.
* **Deterministic Mode:** When given a seed, the same folder structure is regenerated identically across runs.
* **Unified Single-Table Architecture:** One table with world-based existence tracking for optimal performance.
* **RESTful API Interface:** Exposes a comprehensive HTTP API with folder/file CRUD operations.
* **Go fs.FS Interface:** Implements Go's standard library `fs.FS` interface for compatibility with tools like Rclone.
* **DuckDB Persistence:** Each node is stored in a local DuckDB database with metadata for path, type, size, timestamps, etc.
* **Configurable Complexity:** Control depth, fan-out, file size ranges, and naming schemes through the config file or API.
* **Instant Cleanup:** Simple teardown between tests — delete the DuckDB file and regenerate.
* **Plain UUID IDs:** Simple unique identifiers without prefixes.
* **Optimized Queries:** Vectorized queries reduce database round trips by 3-4x.

---

## Architecture

### Single-Table Design

Spectra uses an optimized single-table architecture for maximum performance:

- **Unified `nodes` Table**: All nodes stored in one table with plain UUID IDs
- **Existence Map**: JSON column tracking which "worlds" (primary, s1, s2, etc.) each node exists in
- **Dynamic Traversal Columns**: Per-world traversal status columns (`traversal_primary`, `traversal_s1`, etc.)
- **World-Based Filtering**: Queries filter nodes by world using JSON operations on `existence_map`

### Probability-Based Generation

When generating children:
1. Generate nodes based on configuration rules
2. For each node, roll dice against world probabilities
3. Populate `existence_map` with results: `{"primary": true, "s1": true, "s2": false}`
4. Insert all nodes in a single bulk operation

### World-Aware Operations

The system filters nodes by "world" context:
- Default world is "primary"
- Operations can specify target world (s1, s2, etc.)
- Nodes can exist in multiple worlds simultaneously
- Traversal status tracked independently per world

---

## Tech Stack

| Component                                               | Purpose                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Go (Golang)**                                         | Core implementation language                           |
| **DuckDB**                                              | Lightweight embedded SQL database for node persistence |
| **Chi Router**                                          | HTTP router for RESTful API endpoints                 |
| **Google UUID**                                         | UUID generation for consistent node identification     |
| **Go's `math/rand`**                                    | Deterministic random generation with seeding           |
| **Go standard library (`os`, `path/filepath`, `time`, `io/fs`)** | Utility functions, path normalization, and filesystem interface |

---

## Project Structure

```
Spectra/
├── cmd/                       # Command-line applications
│   └── api/                   # API server application
│       └── main.go           # HTTP API server entry point
├── configs/                   # Configuration files
│   └── default.json          # Default configuration
├── internal/                  # Internal implementation
│   ├── api/                  # HTTP API layer
│   │   ├── handlers/         # Endpoint handlers
│   │   ├── middleware/       # HTTP middleware
│   │   ├── models/           # Request/response models
│   │   ├── router.go         # Route configuration
│   │   └── server.go         # HTTP server
│   ├── config/               # Configuration management
│   ├── db/                   # Database layer
│   ├── generator/            # Procedural generation
│   ├── spectrafs/            # Core filesystem logic
│   └── types/                # Type definitions
├── sdk/                      # Public SDK interface
├── dev_setup_scripts/        # Development setup scripts
├── main.go                   # SDK demo application
└── go.mod                    # Go module definition
```

---

## Core Concepts

### Node Generation

Spectra represents all nodes as entries in a unified DuckDB table:

| Column               | Type      | Description                                                |
| -------------------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------   |
| `id`                 | string    | Plain UUID identifier                                      |
| `parent_id`          | string    | UUID of parent folder                                      |
| `name`               | string    | Display name                                               |
| `path`               | string    | Relative path (root-relative, not absolute)                |
| `type`               | string    | `"folder"` or `"file"`                                     |
| `depth_level`        | int       | BFS-style depth index                                      |
| `size`               | int64     | File size (0 for folders)                                  |
| `last_updated`       | timestamp | Synthetic timestamp                                        |
| `checksum`           | string    | SHA256 checksum (for files only)                           |
| `existence_map`      | JSON      | Map tracking world existence: `{"primary":true,"s1":true}` |

### Example Behavior

Given a config:

```json
{
  "seed": {
    "max_depth": 4,
    "min_folders": 1,
    "max_folders": 3,
    "min_files": 2,
    "max_files": 5,
    "seed": 42,
    "db_path": "./spectra.db"
  },
  "api": {
    "host": "localhost",
    "port": 8086
  },
  "secondary_tables": {
    "s1": 0.7,
    "s2": 0.3
  }
}
```

Spectra will generate a reproducible tree up to 4 levels deep, where each folder contains between 1–3 subfolders and 2–5 files. Each node will have a 70% chance of existing in the s1 world and a 30% chance of existing in the s2 world, tracked in its `existence_map`.

---

## API Interface

### RESTful Endpoints

#### Folder Operations
- `POST /api/v1/folder/list` - List children with table detection
- `POST /api/v1/folder/create` - Create new folder
- `GET /api/v1/folder/{id}` - Get folder metadata

#### File Operations
- `POST /api/v1/file/upload` - Upload file with data processing
- `GET /api/v1/file/{id}` - Get file metadata
- `GET /api/v1/file/{id}/data` - Get file data + checksum

#### Node Operations
- `GET /api/v1/node/{id}` - Get any node metadata
- `DELETE /api/v1/node/{id}` - Delete node

#### System Operations
- `POST /api/v1/reset` - Reset all tables
- `GET /api/v1/config` - Get current configuration
- `GET /api/v1/tables` - Get table information
- `GET /api/v1/tables/{tableName}/count` - Get table row count

### SDK Interface

```go
type SpectraFS struct {
    // Core operations
    ListChildren(req *ListChildrenRequest) (*ListResult, error)
    GetNode(req *GetNodeRequest) (*Node, error)
    CreateFolder(req *CreateFolderRequest) (*Node, error)
    UploadFile(req *UploadFileRequest) (*Node, error)
    DeleteNode(req *DeleteNodeRequest) error
    
    // System operations
    Reset() error
    GetConfig() *Config
    GetTableInfo() ([]TableInfo, error)
    GetNodeCount(tableName string) (int, error)
}
```

#### Request Types

All CRUD operations use simple request structs that support flexible lookup methods through a clean interface-based design:

**GetNodeRequest** - Retrieve a node by ID or Path+World
```go
// By ID (plain UUID)
req := &sdk.GetNodeRequest{
    ID: "root",
}
// OR by Path in specific world
req := &sdk.GetNodeRequest{
    Path:      "/",
    TableName: "s1",  // TableName specifies the world
}
node, err := fs.GetNode(req)
```

**ListChildrenRequest** - List children of a parent node
```go
// By ParentID (plain UUID)
req := &sdk.ListChildrenRequest{
    ParentID: "root",
}
// OR by ParentPath in specific world
req := &sdk.ListChildrenRequest{
    ParentPath: "/",
    TableName:  "s1",  // Defaults to "primary" if not specified
}
result, err := fs.ListChildren(req)
```

**CreateFolderRequest** - Create a new folder
```go
req := &sdk.CreateFolderRequest{
    ParentID: "root",  // OR ParentPath + TableName
    Name:     "new-folder",
}
folder, err := fs.CreateFolder(req)
// folder.ExistenceMap will contain world existence based on probabilities
```

**UploadFileRequest** - Upload a file
```go
req := &sdk.UploadFileRequest{
    ParentID: "root",  // OR ParentPath + TableName
    Name:     "test.txt",
    Data:     []byte("file content"),
}
file, err := fs.UploadFile(req)
```

**DeleteNodeRequest** - Delete a node
```go
req := &sdk.DeleteNodeRequest{
    ID: "abc123-...",  // Plain UUID
}
err := fs.DeleteNode(req)
```

**Design Note:** Each request struct implements the appropriate interfaces (`NodeIdentifier`, `ParentIdentifier`, etc.) for compile-time type safety and runtime validation. Users can pass any struct that implements these interfaces.

### fs.FS Interface

SpectraFS implements Go's standard library `fs.FS` interface, enabling compatibility with tools like Rclone and standard library functions:

```go
// Create SpectraFS instance
fs, _ := sdk.New("configs/default.json")

// Get fs.FS for a specific world
primaryFS := fs.AsFS("primary")
s1FS := fs.AsFS("s1")

// Use with standard library
import "io/fs"

data, _ := fs.ReadFile(primaryFS, "folder/file.txt")
entries, _ := fs.ReadDir(primaryFS, "folder")
```

**World Projection:** Each world is projected as a separate filesystem, allowing tools like Rclone to treat each world as an independent remote. This enables comparison and synchronization between different world projections.

---

## Usage

### Running the Applications

#### SDK Demo Application
```bash
# Run the SDK demonstration
go run main.go

# Use custom configuration
go run main.go -config configs/custom.json
```

#### API Server
```bash
# Start the HTTP API server with default configuration
go run cmd/api/main.go

# Start with custom configuration
go run cmd/api/main.go configs/custom.json
```

### Example API Calls

#### List Children
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8086/api/v1/folder/list \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"parent_id": "root"}'
```

#### Create Folder
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8086/api/v1/folder/create \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"parent_id": "root", "name": "new-folder"}'
```

#### Upload File
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8086/api/v1/file/upload \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"parent_id": "root", "name": "test.txt", "data": "SGVsbG8gV29ybGQ="}'
```

---

## Development Setup

### Windows Setup
Run the provided PowerShell script to set up the development environment:

```powershell
.\dev_setup_scripts\windows.ps1
```

This script will:
- Install MSYS2 and GCC for CGO support
- Set up DuckDB binaries
- Configure environment variables
- Install Go dependencies

**Note**: Spectra uses `go-duckdb v1.7.0` and `apache/arrow/go/v14 v14.0.2` for Windows compatibility. These versions are known to work well with the Windows CGO setup.

### Manual Setup
1. Install Go 1.24.2 or later
2. Install DuckDB with CGO support
3. Run `go mod tidy` to install dependencies
4. Build applications:
   ```bash
   # Build SDK demo
   go build -o bin/spectra-demo main.go
   
   # Build API server
   go build -o bin/spectra-api cmd/api/main.go
   ```

---

## Command-Line Applications

Spectra provides two main command-line applications:

### SDK Demo (`main.go`)
A demonstration application that showcases the Spectra SDK functionality:
- Loads configuration and initializes SpectraFS
- Demonstrates table information and node generation
- Shows multi-table operations and secondary table counts
- Performs a complete reset operation
- Perfect for testing and understanding the SDK

### API Server (`cmd/api/main.go`)
A production-ready HTTP server that exposes the Spectra filesystem via RESTful API:
- Starts HTTP server on configurable host and port
- Provides all CRUD operations via REST endpoints
- Includes graceful shutdown and timeout handling
- Supports CORS and proper error responses
- Ideal for integration testing and production use

---

## Use Cases

* **Migration Engine Testing:** Validate traversal and BFS logic with reproducible data.
* **Performance Benchmarks:** Measure traversal throughput without real I/O.
* **Integration Testing:** Simulate different storage backends through the same API shape.
* **Rclone Integration:** Use SpectraFS as a backend for Rclone, enabling comparison and synchronization between different world projections.
* **Chaos Simulation:** Test rate limiting, throttling, or transient "missing node" scenarios.
* **Multi-Source Testing:** Test migration scenarios with multiple data sources and probability-based data distribution.
* **Standard Library Compatibility:** Use with any tool or library that works with Go's `fs.FS` interface.

---

## Configuration

The configuration file supports three main sections:

- **`seed`**: Controls procedural generation parameters
- **`api`**: Configures HTTP server settings
- **`secondary_tables`**: Defines secondary table probabilities

See `configs/default.json` for a complete example.

---

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

---

## License

This project is part of the Sylos ecosystem and follows the same overall copyright laws and protections, however this specific library uses an MIT license to permit the community to utilize it and update it as they see fit. <3
